.TH GIPH 1 "April 2019" "MIT License" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
giph \- record gif from desktop, window or selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B giph
.RI [ OPTIONS "] [" FILENAME ]
.br
.B giph
[\fB-g\fR \fIGEOMETRY\fR |
\fB-w\fR \fIINT\fR |
\fB-s\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIFLOAT,FLOAT,FLOAT,FLOAT\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIFLOAT\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIFLOAT\fR]]
[\fB-d\fR \fIINT\fR]
[\fB-t\fR \fIINT\fR]
[\fB-f\fR \fIINT\fR]
[\fB--format\fR \fISTRING\fR]
[\fB-a\fR | \fB -as \fISTRING\fR]
[\fB-m\fR | \fB -ms \fISTRING\fR]
[\fIFILENAME\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B giph
is a screen recorder that records the desktop, a window or selection and encodes it into a video file.
.br
The recorded video file is encoded in one of the supported formats, gif, webm, mp4 or mkv based on the file extension given in [\fIFILENAME\fR].
.br
When omitting [\fIFILENAME\fR], the default format "gif" is used (use --format to overwrite), and the resulting video directly printed to standard output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BI "giph -g " "300x200+600+200 ~/Videos/$(date +%s).png"
Records a 300x200 pixel (width x height) rectangle, that is shifted 600 pixel to the right and 200 pixel down from the top-left corner. The recording stops when either 
.B ctrl+c
is pressed, or after calling
.B giph --stop.
.br
The encoded gif will be saved in your users videos directory and has the current timestamp as a name.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-stop
Finish any running giph recordings
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v* ", " \-\-verbose ", " \-\-quiet
Defines how verbose giph will be. Omitting [\fIFILENAME\fR] will overwrite the verbosity to \fI-1\fR (quiet).  Use the following list to determine which option to use for each verbosity level:
.in +2
\(bu
.IB "-1 \fR(quiet)" " --quiet \fR - logs errors"
.br
\(bu
.IB " 0 \fR(normal) - like quiet, also displays interactive components"
.br
\(bu
.IB " 1 \fR(verbose)" " -v\fR, \fB--verbose" "\fR - like normal, also logs basic information about steps"
.br
\(bu
.IB " 2 \fR(very_verbose) " -vv "\fR - like verbose, also logs detailed information about steps"
.br
\(bu
.IB " 3 \fR(debug) " -vvv "\fR - like very_verbose, also shows background process output"
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-select
Uses slop to interactively select the desired region or window to record. This uses the
.B SLOP OPTIONS
described below.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-geometry " " \fIGEOMETRY
Sets the region to record.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-window " " \fIINT
Sets the window id of the desired window to record.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delay " " \fIINT
Sets the time in seconds to wait before the recording starts.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timer " " \fITIMEDURATION
Sets a fixed time to record. The format is a timeduration as described in the ffmpeg documentation (https://ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg-utils.html#Time-duration). As an example, '10' would mean 10 seconds, '3:30' means 3 minutes and 30 seconds, '1:02:03' means 1 hour, 2 minutes and 3 seconds, and '5.5' means 5.5 seconds.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-framerate " \fIINT\fR (default: \fI20\fR)"
Sets the desired framerate of the recorded gif. A higher framerate will result in a larger filesize.
.TP
.BR \-\-format
Overwrites the format that should be used for the recording. The available formats are
.IR gif ", " webm ", " mp4 " and " mkv "."
While
.IR gif
is the only format that does not support audio recording.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-audio
Enables audio recording for formats that support audio.
.TP
.BR \-as ", " \-\-audio-source " \fISTRING\fR (default: '\fI0\fR')"
Define which pulseaudio source should be used for the recording. Run `pacmd list-sources` to get a list of all available sources. You can use either the index or the name of the source for this parameter. When setting this parameter, setting
.BR \-a " or " \-\-audio
can be omitted.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-microphone
Enables microphone recording for formats that support audio.
.TP
.BR \-ms ", " \-\-microphone-source " \fISTRING\fR (default: '\fIdefault\fR')"
Define which pulseaudio source should be used for the recording. Run `pacmd list-sources` to get a list of all available sources. You can use either the index or the name of the source for this parameter. When setting this parameter, setting
.BR \-m " or " \-\-microphone
can be omitted.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-notify
Uses notify-send to send an urgent notification if an error happens, or a normal notification when the final gif was saved successfully.
.SH SLOP OPTIONS
When
.BR -s " or " --select
is used, slop will be used to get geometry information. Read
.B slop(1)
for more detailed information about slop options. The following options will be passed to slop if they are set:
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-bordersize " \fIFLOAT\fR (default: \fI1\fR)"
Set the selection border thickness.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-padding " \fIFLOAT\fR (default: \fI0\fR)"
Set the selection padding. This can be negative.
.TP
.BR \-to ", " \-\-tolerance " \fIFLOAT\fR (default: \fI2\fR)"
Defines how far the mouse can move after clicking while still being considered a click.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-color " \fIFLOAT,FLOAT,FLOAT,FLOAT\fR (default: \fI0.5,0.5,0.5,1\fR)"
Set the selection color as RGB or ARGB.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-shader " \fISTRING"
Set the shader to be used.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-nodecorations " \fIINT\fR (default: \fI0\fR)"
.RI "Tries to select child windows. " 0 " is off, " 1 " tries to remove decorations, " 2 " aggressively tries to remove decorations."
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-highlight
.RB "Highlight the selection rectangle. This uses the color provided in " -c " or " --color "."
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-nokeyboard
Disable being able to cancel the selection using the keyboard.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-noopengl
Disable graphics acceleration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B slop(1)
